# screens
The things that a user sees when looking at a Ren'Py game can be divided into images and user interface:
- Images are displayed to the user using the scene, show, and hide statements, and are generally part of the story being told. 
- Everything else the user sees is part of the user interface, which is customized using screens.

Screens can be displayed in four ways:
- Implicitly, when script statements execute. For example, the say statement will cause <strong>the say screen</strong> to be displayed.
- Automatically. For example, Ren'Py will display the <strong>main_menu screen</strong> when it starts running, or when the user returns to the main menu.
- As an action, associated with a button, mouse button, or keyboard key. 
By default, the save screen is shown when the user right-clicks or presses escape. 
It's also possible to define an on-screen button that shows the save screen.
- Explicitly, using statements that cause screens to be shown.


Ren'Py includes a pool of <strong>pre-defined actions</strong>, 
allowing the user to advance the game, control preferences, load and save games, and invoke many other actions. 
A game-maker can also write new actions in Python.

<br>

Here's an example of a screen:
```
screen say(who, what):
    window id "window":
        vbox:
            spacing 10

            text who id "who"
            text what id "what"
```

The screen(this is the screen that's used to display dialogue) contains a window, which has been given the id of "window". 
This window contains a vertical box, and the spacing inside that box is 10 pixels. 
It contains two text fields, one displaying the name of the speaker, and the displaying what is being spoken.

<br>

## Actions
Actions are invoked when a button (including imagebuttons, textbuttons, and hotspots) is activated, hovered, or unhovered. 
Actions may determine when a button is selected or insensitive.


<br>

## reference
- https://www.renpy.org/doc/html/screens.html
- https://www.renpy.org/doc/html/screen_actions.html